Higher Order Functions Topic (#191)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-1: higher-order-functions/min-max-sorted.md

# Passing Functions as Arguments: Min, Max, and Sort

## Learning Goals

* Demonstrate how to pass a function as an argument
* Describe how to use the key parameter in the `sorted` function to sort a list of dictionaries by a specific key

> * Describe how to use the key parameter in the `min` function to find the minimum in a list of dictionaries by a specific key

Reviewer: I had a similar thought. I was wondering if it would it be worth showing an example with lists (like sorting by title length) to explicitly show data structures other than dictionaries can provide custom comparison keys.

# Passing Functions as Arguments: Min, Max, and Sort

## Learning Goals

* Demonstrate how to pass a function as an argument
* Describe how to use the key parameter in the `sorted` function to sort a list of dictionaries by a specific key
* Describe how to use the key parameter in the `min` function to find the minimum in a list of dictionaries by a specific key

## Introduction

> Imagine we have a list of movie titles we'd like to sort alphabetically. Python provides a couple convenient functions for this task. The [`sort`](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/sorting.html#sorting-basics) method can be called on a list and sorts the list in place. The `sorted` function takes a list as a parameter and returns the sorted list.  

Reviewer: "The `sorted` function takes a list as a parameter and returns the sorted list."
- It might be worth being specific that `sorted` accepts any iterable data type, since that is significantly different from `sort` as a list instance method.

> But what if we have a list of dictionaries representing movies that we want to sort by title, or perhaps by rating. Or perhaps we want to find the most recent movie or oldest movie in a list.

Reviewer: The "or perhaps" repeated close together feels a little weird, I'd consider replacing one of them with "maybe" or "possibly".

Python provides the `key` parameter for `min`, `max`, and `sorted` functions, just to name a few. The `key` parameters takes a function that provides the key to use to indicate which attribute to use for finding the minimum, finding the maximum, or to sort. 

## Movie Example

### List of Movie Titles

Let's consider to the following list of movie titles.

```py
movie_titles = [
    "Recursion",
    "Zero Dark Python",
    "2 JavaScript 2 React",
    "Javascript 3: VS Code Lint"
]
```

To sort the titles alphabetically in place we can use `sort` method:

```py
movie_titles.sort()

# movie_titles = [
#   '2 JavaScript 2 React', 
#   'Javascript 3: VS Code Lint', 
#   'Recursion',
#   'Zero Dark Python'
# ]
```

> Alteratively, we can use the function `sorted` to return the list sorted alphabetically:

Reviewer: Since we're explicit about the `sort` method sorting a list in-place, we may want to be explicit that `sorted` returns a new array:

```suggestion
Alternatively, we can use the function `sorted` to return a copy of the list sorted alphabetically:
```

| Positional Arguments | `def function_name(parameter1, parameter2)` | `function_name(argument1, argument2)`|
| Keyword Arguments |`def function_name(parameter1, parameter2)` | `function_name(parameter1=argument1, parameter2=argument2)` |

Functions can be called with a mix of keyword and positional arguments, but positional arguments cannot follow keyword arguments in the function call. To learn more, [here is an article we recommend](https://treyhunner.com/2018/04/keyword-arguments-in-python/).

Consider the following function:

```py
def sum(a, b):
    return a + b
```

The following table describes valid and invalid syntax for calling `get_the_sum`:

| Function Call | Valid Syntax (yes/no) | Explanation |
|--|--|--|
|`sum(1, 2)` | yes | This is an example of calling a function with two positional arguments. |
|`sum(a=1, b=2)` | yes | This is an example of calling a function with two keyword arguments. |
|`sum(1, b=2)` | yes | This is an example of calling a function with a mix of positional and keyword arguments. |
|`sum(a=1, 2)` | no | This is invalid. Positional arguments cannot follow keyword arguments. <br> `SyntaxError: positional argument follows keyword argument`|

> ## Higher Order Functions

Reviewer: It looks like the topic is named "Higher Order Functions", but we don't define that term until this section. I'm wondering if it could be helpful to add a definitions table to surface the terms "Higher Order Functions", "keyword argument", and "positional argument".

The `min` function with the `key` parameter is an example of a higher order function.

### !callout-info

## Higher Order Functions

A higher order function is a function that takes another function as an argument.

### !end-callout

A function is an object in memory that is a set of instructions. A function name is a variable that points to this set of instructions. 

When we use the `()` syntax, we are calling the address of that variable. When we leave off the `()`, we are looking up the address that the variable is pointing to.

> Just like variables that point to other objects (strings, integers, lists, etc.), we can assign a function to another variable:

Reviewer: I don't think it's _necessary_ for understanding, but we could add a little clarity about where `get_title` is coming from in the example below 

```suggestion
Just like variables that point to other objects (strings, integers, lists, etc.), we can assign a function to another variable. Assuming `get_title` is a function as defined in the example above, we could write:
```
